Call for Papers & Posters

Association of Teachers of Technical Writing 11^th Annual Conference

200 word proposals due: October 31, 2007.  Conference date: Wednesday,
April 2, 2008, 8:30 a.m.  In conjunction with the 2008 CCCC Annual
Convention, April 2-5, New Orleans, Louisiana

Connecting Communities

As we journey to New Orleans, we come to a place historically connected
to and by diverse neighborhoods, music, food, and festivals; a place
more recently disconnected by disasters and tragedies; a place now
trying to reconnect within its own communities and with those beyond. We
come to a city whose recent history asks us to consider ethics, public
rhetorics, technical failure, risk communication, and responsibility in
ways we previously may not have. We come to a place that prompts us to
ask if our research practices create connections among
communities—whether those communities are situated within classrooms,
neighborhoods, organizations, disciplines, universities. How can our
research practices reflect our responsibility to address the political
and social discourses, civic participation, developing technologies, and
environmental concerns that connect and disconnect communities? To that
end, the Association of Teachers of Technical Writing issues this call
for papers and posters for the 11th annual conference to be held April
2, 2008 in New Orleans, Louisiana. The ATTW seeks 15-minute individual
papers, 3-person panels, and posters that report new research, theory,
and pedagogy that address issues including, but not limited to:

* What historical lessons might we learn from exigencies such as
recent events in New Orleans about crisis communication, about
infrastructures, about policy making, about rebuilding in times of change?

* How can we help to design and improve upon technologies that
help people to connect, to share information in order to prevent the
devastating consequences of disaster, but also to share during times of
crisis and recovery? How do we as technical communicators make
meaningful connections between emerging technologies and knowledge
management that benefit those within and beyond the academy?

* As the field of technical communication evolves, what
connections or communities have been overlooked or neglected that our
research might engage? What new connections might serve as sites for our
research? How might these connections change our discourses, research,
and ways of making knowledge?

* How do we use our expertise to narrow the cultural and digital
divides by increasing the availability and effectiveness of emerging
technologies by the urban poor and technologically disadvantaged?

* In the wake of crises, how have technical communication
teachers and their students connected to and supported communities in
need? What challenges and opportunities have these interactions brought
to the technical communication classroom?

200 word proposals are due October 31, 2007. Proposals can be made in
one of three formats: (1) individual, 15 minute paper presentation; (2)
three-person, 45-minute panel proposal, or (3) poster presentation,
day-long publicly displayed. Submit proposals via the ATTW website
[www.attw.org <http://www.attw.org/>]
